At one time there were three distinct categories of computers mainframes, minicomputers and microcomputers. At one time there were three distinct categories of computers: mainframes, minicomputers and microcomputers. Now commonly used computer categories include personal computers, servers, mainframes and supercomputers. A personal computer is a microprocessor-based computing device designed to meet the computing needs of an individual. It provides access to a wide variety of local and cloud-based applications. In the computer industry, the term server has several meanings. It can refer to computer hardware, to a specific type of software, or to a combination of hardware and software. In any case, the purpose of a server is to serve computers on a network by supplying them with data. A mainframe computer is a large and expensive computer capable of simultaneously processing data for hundreds or thousands of users. Mainframes are generally used by businesses or governments to provide centralized storage, processing and management for large amounts of data. Mainframes remain the computer of choice in situations where reliability, data security and centralized control are necessary. A computer falls into the supercomputer category if it is one of the fastest computers in the world. Because of the speed, supercomputers can tackle complex tasks and compute-intensive problems that just would not be practical for other computers. 
A computer-intensive problem is one that requires massive amounts of data to be processed using complex mathematical calculations. Handheld digital devices include familiar gadgets such as iPhones, iPads, iPods, Garmin GPSs, Droids and Kindles. These devices incorporate many computer characteristics. They accept input, produce output, process data and include storage capabilities. Handheld devices vary in their programmability and their versatility. The term workstation has two meanings. It can simply refer to an ordinary personal computer that is connected to a network or to powerful desktop computers used for high-performance tasks, such as medical imaging and computer-aided design, that require a lot of processing speed. 
